Let's discuss in the context of you at home hooked to a good ol' wireless network (since that's kind of what happening up in the cloud with your AWS instance - I'll get to the key difference)

- Your localhost IP is a subnet (127.0.0.0/8) that exist entirely on your machine. It will never go down, but it's only visible and workable on your computer. No other computer on your local network or other computer in the world can access it.
- By being on a wireless network (or getting networking via an ISP), odds are high that you are connected to a private subnet. When you first set up a device, you say which network to connect to (SSID of your router). You router says, "Hello friend, here is networking info". Info will include the IP it can use on the network (no other device on the network will have the same IP, it's only for you (well, for your NIC)), the subnet - what are the range of other hosts on the network (so it can send traffic locally), the DHCP server (who to contact if it needs another IP / lease is up), and gateway address (where to send packets if they aren't on the network).
- No one in the world can find you without a public IP. What you pay your ISP for is not just equipment, but it's also rental fees for a public IP address so that the world can find you. When your device on the network sends a packet out (and that packet is not to something on your local, private network), it travels to your gateway (router) and your router says, "Hey, no one will be able to send mail back to that!", so it takes your packet scratches out the from-your-private-ip and changes it to the public IP. Packet travels out (let's say to Google) and Google says, "Here ya go". Now if the packet was addressed to a private IP still, it wouldn't be able to find you. But since it has the public IP, it shoots it back to your router (using its public IP). Router says, "cool, return packet for my man". Takes the packet, swaps it back to the private IP your device is using, and gets it back to your NIC.

Now the cloud gets a little fuzzy. You have an instance.

- Since you have a machine (an instance), it will have a local host (local to it) subnet (127.0.0.0/8).
- The cloud makes us mange our own network, which makes good sense from a liability standpoint (you mess things up, AWS just gave you a place to mess it up). So in the cloud we connect machine to a network. The is a private network, and you have a private IP on it.
- Now here's the magic. Since it's the cloud, you can associate a public IP to your instance. In essence, what this means is any attempt to use that public IP will route straight to the instance.

Nothing can find you without a public IP. Private does not mean secret (like when we say private key of an SSH keypair). It just means not publicly routable, which is where NAT + border gateways come in. To give your packets addressed from a priavet IP a public IP to use on the Internet.
